docs/installation/index.md, before:

# Installation
{: .no_toc}

Below is more information on how to install the Glowing Bear data warehouse and
other tools in the Glowing Bear ecosystem.

If you need help installing Glowing Bear or tranSMART, please do not hesitate to
[reach out to The Hyve](https://thehyve.nl/contact/).

# Table of contents
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
{::options toc_levels="1,2" /}

# Glowing Bear data warehouse

The Glowing Bear data warehouse consists of a decoupled user interface on one or
two backends.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Date</th>
    <th>Status</th>
    <th><a href="#glowing-bear-interface">Glowing Bear interface</a></th>
    <th><a href="#transmart-api-server">tranSMART API Server</a></th>
    <th><a href="#glowing-bear-backend">Glowing Bear backend</a></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>10-12-2018</td>
    <td>Stable</td>
    <td>
    1.0.3<br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/thehyve/glowing-bear/releases/tag/1.0.3">Github</a> /
    <a href="https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/nl/thehyve/glowing-bear/1.0.3/">Repo</a>
    </td>
    <td>
    v17.1-hyve-5.6<br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/releases/tag/v17.1-hyve-5.6">Github</a> /
    <a href="https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/org/transmartproject/transmart-api-server/17.1-HYVE-5.6/">Repo</a>
    </td>
    <td>-</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Glowing Bear interface
Installation of Glowing Bear is documented on in the
[README.md on Github](https://github.com/thehyve/glowing-bear#how-to-install).

Releases are available in [Github releases](https://github.com/thehyve/glowing-bear/releases) and as pre-built artifacts in [the The Hyve repo server](https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/nl/thehyve/glowing-bear/).

## tranSMART API server
Glowing Bear talks via the REST API to a tranSMART server. The installation
instructions for the tranSMART server is documented in
[that Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/tree/dev/docs#transmart-171-installation).

Releases are available in [Github releases](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/releases) and as pre-built artifacts in [the The Hyve repo server](https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/org/transmartproject/transmart-api-server/).

## Glowing Bear backend
In the latest versions part of the functionality Glowing Bear needs (saved
cohorts and subscriptions to them) has been moved out of the tranSMART server,
to its own dedicated [Glowing Bear backend](https://github.com/thehyve/gb-backend).

Releases are available in [Github releases](https://github.com/thehyve/gb-backend/releases) and as pre-built artifacts in [the The Hyve repo server](https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/nl/thehyve/gb/backend/gb-backend/).

# Other tools

## Python API client

The Python API client for tranSMART can used to extract data from the tranSMART
server, while respecting the access rights, into a Python environment. For
example within Jupyter Notebooks. It can be installed with pip as [documented in
the Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-api-client-py#installation).

An example Jupyter Notebook with how to use the client can be found in
[transmart-tutorials](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-tutorials).

## tranSMART toolkit (tmtk) data extraction and transformation

The data extraction and transformation toolkit can be used to prepare data to be
loaded into the tranSMART server. The installation information is [documented in
the Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/tmtk#installation).

## tranSMART Copy data loader

Next the data prepared with tmtk can be loaded to the tranSMART server with
tranSMART Copy, which is [documented in the Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/tree/dev/transmart-copy).

Commit message:

Adding technical documentation of data model and API

docs/installation/index.md, after:

# Installation
{: .no_toc}

Below is more information on how to install the Glowing Bear data warehouse and
other tools in the Glowing Bear ecosystem. More [technical information](/docs/technical)
is available too.

If you need help installing Glowing Bear or tranSMART, please do not hesitate to
[reach out to The Hyve](https://thehyve.nl/contact/).

# Table of contents
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
{::options toc_levels="1,2" /}

# Glowing Bear data warehouse

The Glowing Bear data warehouse consists of a decoupled user interface on one or
two backends.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Date</th>
    <th>Status</th>
    <th><a href="#glowing-bear-interface">Glowing Bear interface</a></th>
    <th><a href="#transmart-api-server">tranSMART API Server</a></th>
    <th><a href="#glowing-bear-backend">Glowing Bear backend</a></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>10-12-2018</td>
    <td>Stable</td>
    <td>
    1.0.3<br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/thehyve/glowing-bear/releases/tag/1.0.3">Github</a> /
    <a href="https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/nl/thehyve/glowing-bear/1.0.3/">Repo</a>
    </td>
    <td>
    v17.1-hyve-5.6<br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/releases/tag/v17.1-hyve-5.6">Github</a> /
    <a href="https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/org/transmartproject/transmart-api-server/17.1-HYVE-5.6/">Repo</a>
    </td>
    <td>-</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Glowing Bear interface
Installation of Glowing Bear is documented on in the
[README.md on Github](https://github.com/thehyve/glowing-bear#how-to-install).

Releases are available in [Github releases](https://github.com/thehyve/glowing-bear/releases) and as pre-built artifacts in [the The Hyve repo server](https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/nl/thehyve/glowing-bear/).

## tranSMART API server
Glowing Bear talks via the REST API to a tranSMART server. The installation
instructions for the tranSMART server is documented in
[that Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/tree/dev/docs#transmart-171-installation).

Releases are available in [Github releases](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/releases) and as pre-built artifacts in [the The Hyve repo server](https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/org/transmartproject/transmart-api-server/).

## Glowing Bear backend
In the latest versions part of the functionality Glowing Bear needs (saved
cohorts and subscriptions to them) has been moved out of the tranSMART server,
to its own dedicated [Glowing Bear backend](https://github.com/thehyve/gb-backend).

Releases are available in [Github releases](https://github.com/thehyve/gb-backend/releases) and as pre-built artifacts in [the The Hyve repo server](https://repo.thehyve.nl/content/repositories/releases/nl/thehyve/gb/backend/gb-backend/).

# Other tools

## Python API client

The Python API client for tranSMART can used to extract data from the tranSMART
server, while respecting the access rights, into a Python environment. For
example within Jupyter Notebooks. It can be installed with pip as [documented in
the Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-api-client-py#installation).

An example Jupyter Notebook with how to use the client can be found in
[transmart-tutorials](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-tutorials).

## tranSMART toolkit (tmtk) data extraction and transformation

The data extraction and transformation toolkit can be used to prepare data to be
loaded into the tranSMART server. The installation information is [documented in
the Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/tmtk#installation).

## tranSMART Copy data loader

Next the data prepared with tmtk can be loaded to the tranSMART server with
tranSMART Copy, which is [documented in the Github repository](https://github.com/thehyve/transmart-core/tree/dev/transmart-copy).
